# Workshop
the purpose of this workshop is to do walk through of my code on my project Basic DAO in UMOJA Bounty HACK II. In a simple term Basic DAO means a basic Decentralized Autonomous Organization. that is an organisation where decision making is not central, but instead the member of the organisation (also called DAO) are solely incharge of decsion making mostly by voting. For my project, vote are are being casted on which particular idea should the DAO fund, the idea with the highest vote receives the funds once the result are in. Do you want to know how i was able to achieve this the obstacle faced and all? You can through my <a href="https://medium.com/@Ibkodus116/basic-dao-umoja-iii-bounty-hack-team-56-a3bf972b384d" target="_blank">article</a>.

# Requirement
## This are the Basic Requiremnt/knowledge you are expected to have before going through this workshop.

- Atleast intermediate knowledge of Webdevelopment
- Basic knowledge of Javascript
- Basic knowledge of React
- Go through Reach tutorial [here](https://docs.reach.sh/tut/rps/#tut)
- Download and Install Reach [here](https://docs.reach.sh/quickstart/#quickstart)

Reach has a very supportive and ready to help community if you ever get stocked just put up the question and you will definately get an answer. Join Reach [Dicord Server](https://discord.com/invite/XJHFzSsc) now.

# Particiapants Activities.
although we are not limited to number of users but due to the limited time available, i made use of 5 particiapnts namely Deployer, Proposer, Initial Investor, Investor 2, Investor 3, two partipant proposes idea to be voted on while the other 3 particiapnt are member of the DAO who votes for the best idea. their Activies are:

- Deployer: This is the participant who initiates the protocol and proposes the first idea.

- Proposer: This participant follows suit and proposes the next Idea using the contract ID generated by the deployer.

- Initial Investor: this is the first memeber of the DAO that saw it fit to vote for that particular idea, this participant select a particular idea to vote on by using their ontract ID, cast thier vote and then decide the amount to be used in funding the idea.

- Investor 2: This participant also do the same as the initial investor, but will only need the contract address after which they cast thier vote.

- Investor 3: This participant also do the same as the investor 1 and cast thier vote.

After the whole casting of vote they will be an alert from the browser showing the idea with the highest vote and funds are sent to the participant who proposed the idea.

# Code Proccess

## Boostrapping React
to get started on react run this command in your preffered location on your computer
```
npx create-react-app basic-dao
```
wait for the command to run this will bootstrap a react template for you. Next, navigate to the src directory in terminal this is where we will be writing our reach code.
## Reach Setup
To be sure you have reach installed and working fine run the command below if not check the [Requirement](https://github.com/Ibkodus116/Basic_DAO/blob/b30478b0278058fe11a23ea49b2c8935b811270a/README.md#L4) section to learn how

```
reach version
```

On my PC, I get reach 0.1 as the result of that command, if you are getting a message saying Reach is not installed and you are certain you have installed reach by following the instructions in the earlier paragraph. You can follow the steps below to add Reach to your Path on a Windows

1. Open up Terminal.
2. Run the following command: sudo nano /etc/paths.
3. Enter your password, when prompted.
4. Go to the bottom of the file, and enter /Users/{username}/reach.
5. Hit control-x to quit.
6. Enter “Y” to save the modified buffer. Please note that you might need to close and open all instances of terminal for this to work well

## Reach Coding
We are making use of VS code so right in vs code in the src folder, please create a new file called index.rsh, this is the file we will be writing our reach code, let's jump right into that:
```
'reach 0.1';
```
this will be our first line of code in the index.rsh file, this simply signifies that this the particular file is a reach file and it specifies the version of reach we are curently using. then we create an interface for our basic interaction which will in turn interact with the Front end:

```
const Persons = {
  informTimeout: Fun([], Null),
  viewIdeas:  Fun([Bytes(10), Bytes(10)], Null),
  voteIdea: Fun([], Bytes(10)),
  seeOutcome: Fun([Bytes(10), Bytes(10), Bytes(10)], Null)
}
```
Now let define the interface for responsibilities that are particular to each participant:

This is the interface for the initial investor
```
const user1 = Participant("user1", {
  ...Persons,
  funds: UInt,
  deadline: UInt,

});
```
This is the interface for investor 1
```
const user2 = Participant("user2", {
  ...Persons,
  accepFunds: Fun([UInt], Null),   ///acceptFunds= (funds) => {do wahtsoever with funds}

})
```
This is the interface for investor 2
```
const user3 = Participant("user3", {
  ...Persons,
  accepFunds: Fun([UInt], Null),   ///acceptFunds= (funds) => {do wahtsoever with funds}
});
```
Below is the interface for the [deployer](https://github.com/Ibkodus116/Basic_DAO/blob/b30478b0278058fe11a23ea49b2c8935b811270a/README.md#L18)
```
const Proposer1 = Participant("Proposer1", {
  proposeIdea: Fun([], Bytes(10)),
  seeOutcome: Fun([Bytes(10), Bytes(10), Bytes(10)], Null)
});
```

Below is the interface for the [deployer](https://github.com/Ibkodus116/Basic_DAO/blob/b30478b0278058fe11a23ea49b2c8935b811270a/README.md#L20)

```
const Proposer2 = Participant("Proposer2", {
  proposeIdea: Fun([], Bytes(10)),
  seeOutcome: Fun([Bytes(10), Bytes(10), Bytes(10)], Null)
})
```